README.md, before:

# About
Creates a local environment backend infrasctructure with [Postgres](https://www.prostresql.org), [Redis](https://redis.io/) and a simple [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/) based API based on [expressJs](https://expressjs.com/)

## Requirements
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/)

## Usage
### Example curl requests to the API

Create a user
```
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" --request POST -d '{"username":"boo"}' http://localhost:3000/users/create
```

Get a username from a GUID
```
curl http://localhost:3000/users/*GUID*
```

Publish a message
```
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json"   --request POST   -d '{"message":"Hi everybody"}'   http://localhost:3000/messages/publish
```

## Commands

### Launching the backend
Launch
`docker compose up -d`

View logs 
`docker compose logs -f`

### Database volume management
List all volumes  
`docker volume ls`  
  
Delete the data volumes. This erases all stored data and will recreate the db on next launch  
`docker volume rm *PARENT_FOLDER*_postgres *PARENT_FOLDER*_redis`  
  
### Access container  
`docker exec -it web bash`  
`docker exec -it redis bash`  
`docker exec -it postgres bash` 

## To Do
- DB migration. Shell script to perform new migrations and update metadata table using adding email and password fields (using BCrypt) to the users table as an example.
- Authenticated requests. Create a logged in endpoint that can only be accessed by authenticating the user.
- Session persistence using Redis and JWT.
- Terraform setup.

## Notes
* Scripts in postgres/init.d get executed upon volume creation in alphabetical order
* [PGAdmin](https://www.pgadmin.org/) is a cross platform Web based UI for postgres
* [RedisInsight](https://redislabs.com/redisinsight/) is similar for Redis

Commit message:

First database migration.
Includes a script that checks to see if the migration has already been applied, and only applies new migrations in order.
More work is required to robust this up. It's not been tested with a non-local instance.

README.md, after:

# About
Creates a local environment backend infrasctructure with [Postgres](https://www.prostresql.org), [Redis](https://redis.io/) and a simple [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/) based API based on [expressJs](https://expressjs.com/)

## Requirements
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/)

## Usage
### Example curl requests to the API

Create a user
```
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" --request POST -d '{"username":"boo"}' http://localhost:3000/users/create
```

Get a username from a GUID
```
curl http://localhost:3000/users/*GUID*
```

Publish a message
```
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json"   --request POST   -d '{"message":"Hi everybody"}'   http://localhost:3000/messages/publish
```

Run database migrations
```
docker exec postgres bash //docker-entrypoint-initdb.d/run_migrations.sh -u postgres -d postgres
```
Existing migrations are applied automatically when the container is created, but you'll need to run this to apply new migrations.

## Commands

### Launching the backend
Launch
`docker compose up -d`

View logs 
`docker compose logs -f`

### Database volume management
List all volumes  
`docker volume ls`  
  
Delete the data volumes. This erases all stored data and will recreate the db on next launch  
`docker volume rm *PARENT_FOLDER*_postgres *PARENT_FOLDER*_redis`  
  
### Access container  
`docker exec -it web bash`  
`docker exec -it redis bash`  
`docker exec -it postgres bash` 

## To Do
- Authenticated requests. Create a logged in endpoint that can only be accessed by authenticating the user.
- Session persistence using Redis and JWT.
- Terraform setup.

## Notes
* Scripts in postgres/init.d get executed upon volume creation in alphabetical order
* [PGAdmin](https://www.pgadmin.org/) is a cross platform Web based UI for postgres
* [RedisInsight](https://redislabs.com/redisinsight/) is similar for Redis
